.TH sb2-session 1 "21 December 2010" "2.2" "sb2-session man page"
.SH NAME
sb2-session \- manage scratchbox2 sessions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sb2-session [COMMAND [PARAMS]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sb2-session
is used to create attachable scratchbox2 sessions.
You can save session even when you haven't done '-S session' during
.I sb2
startup.

Note that you can give parameters to
.B attach
command which are passed verbatim to \fIsb2\fR. If there is only one
session to attach, it is selected automatically.

If no command is given, help text is printed.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
help
shows help text
.TP
save
saves current session
.TP
list
lists detached sb2 sessions
.TP
delete SESSION
deletes given session
.TP
attach [SESSION [PARAMS]]
attaches to a given session
.TP
setenv VARIABLE VALUE
store a value for an environment variable
.TP
showenv
show stored environment variables

.SH EXAMPLES
Basic usage is:

.RS 4
.nf
[SB2 .. ] $ sb2-session save	# save session
[SB2 .. ] $ ^D				# exit
.fi
.RE

Later we can then attach to this session:

.RS 4
.nf
% sb2-session attach
.fi
.RE

If there are more than one saved session, then:

.RS 4
.nf
% sb2-session list
session.XXXX    TARGET_ARM      My Comment
session.YYYY    TARGET_ARM      My Comment 2
session.ZZZZ    TARGET_MIPS
% sb2-session attach session.YYYY
.fi
.RE

Here we pass '-eR' to \fIsb2\fR and we only have one saved session:

.RS 4
.nf
 % sb2-session attach -- -eR
.fi
.RE

\&'--' marks end of parameter list for sb2-session.

.B setenv VARIABLE VALUE
can be used to add environment variables, that will become active
when a saved session is later taken into use (either by
.B sb2-session attach
or by \fBsb2 -J\fR).

.B setenv VARIABLE VALUE
does not change environment of sessions that are already active.

.B showenv
lists environment variable settings which have been stored with this
tool. It does not show environment variables from other sources.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sb2 (1)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Mika Westerberg
.fi
