.TH sb2-init 1 "17 December 2010" "2.2" "sb2-init man page"
.SH NAME
sb2-init \- initialize a target for scratchbox2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sb2-init
[OPTION]... [TARGETNAME] [COMPILER[:SPECS]] [SECONDARY_COMPILER...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sb2-init
initializes a target for scratchbox2. If no options or other
parameters are given, already initialized targets are listed.
.PP
A
.I scratchbox2 target
is simply a light-weight, symbolic name for a configuration set.
A target does not contain anything that is active, like
running processes; hence a user never "works inside a target”.
Instead, sessions are used for all active operations.
Sessions are created by the
.B sb2
command.
.PP
sb2-init is expected to be run in the directory you want
to use as the target root filesystem.
.PP
TARGETNAME is the name of the target to initialize. If it refers to
an existing target, then the target is re-initialized. Otherwise
a new one is created.
.PP
COMPILER is full path to a cross-compiler (gcc), 
of the form $HOME/arm-2006q3/bin/arm-linux-gcc.
An optional SPECS parameter is path to the compiler specs file.
.PP
If more than one compiler is specified, additional compilers
are available by version number (e.g. if the primary is known as
"gcc" and "gcc-4.1", the secondary may be "gcc-3.4", etc)
.PP
Note that the compiler is usually used during the target
creation process to determine CPU architecture of the target
system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-c "command"
specify cpu transparency command, for example:
"qemu-arm", "sbrsh" or "qemu-arm -R 256M".
CPU transparency method is the program which is used to execute
foreign binaries, that the host computer can not execute directly.
.TP
\-p "command"
specify cpu transparency command for staticly linked native binaries.
.TP
\-r [hostname]
generate sbrsh config using remote device address
.TP
\-l [hostname]
NFS server/localhost address seen by remote device
.TP
\-d
set target as default scratchbox2 target (default target can
also be set later with the
.B sb2-config
command)
.TP
\-m [mapping_mode]
use mapping_mode as default. Default for this is "simple"
.TP
\-h
Print help.
.TP
\-n
don't build libtool for the target
.TP
\-N
don't generate localization files for the target
.TP
\-s
skip checks for target root's /usr/include etc.
.TP
\-t [tools_dir]
set directory containing the build tools distribution
.TP
\-C "options"
add extra options for the compiler, for example: -C "-fgnu89-inline"
.TP
\-A arch
manually override target architecture
.TP
\-M arch
manually override machine name (see uname(2)). This
defaults to the target architecture (see option -A)
.TP
\-v
display version


.SH EXAMPLES

.nf
mkdir $HOME/buildroot
cd $HOME/buildroot
[fetch a rootfs from somewhere and extract it here]
sb2-init -c qemu-arm TARGET /path/to/cross-compiler/bin/arm-linux-gcc
.fi

.SH FILES
.P
.I $HOME/.scratchbox2/*
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sb2 (1),
.BR sb2-config (1),
.BR qemu (1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Lauri T. Aarnio
.fi
