.TH sb2 1 "7 March 2012" "2.3" "sb2 man page"
.SH NAME
sb2 \- crosscompiling environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sb2
[options] [command] [arguments] [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sb2
runs command in a scratchbox2 session. If no command is given, an interactive shell is started.
.PP
Scratchbox2 is typically used to create a
.I transparent cross-compiling environment
for developing programs and compiling software packages for e.g. embedded devices.
.PP
The environment created by
.B sb2
has essential differences to the host OS environment:
.PP
First, a virtual file system view is presented to the applications.
In practise that means that the file names (paths) which an application
uses may be modified before the OS does its operations;
applications observe a different file system than what the real file system is. For example,
common directories like /bin, /usr/lib and /lib can be changed to point to target-specific directories,
which contain files for a different CPU architecture than what the host has.
.PP
Second, scratchbox2 makes execution of foreign binaries completely transparent. 
Target's binaries can be executed on the host just as if they were host's binaries;
scratchbox2 will start a 
.I CPU transparency method
automatically whenever needed (Qemu is typically used for this).
.PP
Third, scratchbox2 can also virtualize network (TCP/IP) addresses
and connections.
.PP
Fourth, scratchbox2 can also virtualize file owner and permission
information, and user and group IDs of the running processes.
.PP
The result is that the development machine appears as a virtual target system to
the software development tools, and complex tools (like GNU Autotools)
can be used directly.
.PP
Scratchbox2 works by intercepting library calls of dynamically linked binaries.
It uses a flexible and highly configurable rule engine, when deciding when, what, and how to
modify parameters of the intercepted calls; this is completely
transparent to the users and applications.
Scratchbox2 2 does not need any special privileges or kernel-level services;
it is completely based on features that are available for all ordinary users.
.PP
Configuration data is stored to a
.I target
(see sb2-init(1) for details about creating a target).
The target contains defaults for all settings that are needed when a session is
created.
.PP
A new session is created every time when the
.B sb2
command is used (unless one of the persistent session control options is present -
see options -S,-J,-P and -D below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-b DIR
Produce graphs and log summaries to directory DIR.
Implies '-L info'. Log summaries are created by 
.I sb2-logz,
and if the
.I graphviz
package is available, execution and process grahps 
are created by 'dot', too.
.TP
\-B DIR
As -b, but also include process accounting data.
(This may require special permissions, because 
.I acct(2)
system call is used twice. Tries to use 
.I sudo
if process accounting can not be activated directly, and
that may require a password)
.TP
\-c
When creating a session, also create a private copy of the target root filesystem (rootstrap).
Modifications done to the copy will be thrown away when the session is destroyed.
Note that the copy operation can be really slow, depending on the size of the file system,
but if the copy goes to a ramdisk, overall performance may much be better (see also option -W).
.TP
\-C DIR
When creating a session, create copy of DIR and use it as the
target root filesystem (rootstrap). Note that this can be really slow. See also option -c.
.TP
\-d
Use debug mode: same as
.B -L debug
.TP
\-D FILE
Delete a persistent session associated with FILE. 
Warning: this does not check if the session is still in use!
(see also -S and -J)
.TP
\-e
Same as
.B -m emulate:
Use emulation mode, avoid executing any host binaries except qemu.
See
.B mapping modes
below.
.TP
\-g
Create a new session with setsid(); useful when executing commands in the background
(i.e. creates a system session and a new process group, and detaches from the
controlling terminal. See setsid(2) for more info)
.TP
\-G file
Append process group number to a file.
.TP
\-h
Print help.
.TP
\-J FILE
Join a persistent session associated with FILE (see also -D,-P and -S) 
.TP
\-L LEVEL
Enable logging. Following values for LEVEL are available (in order
of increasing level of details): error, warning, net, notice, info, debug, noise, noise2.
The default is
.I warning.
Logs can be post-processed with 
.I sb2-logz,
a tool which produces summaries and visualizes various things that were logged.
.TP
\-m MODE
Use one of the pre-defined mapping modes.  See
.B mapping modes
below.
.TP
\-n NET_MODE
Use one of the pre-defined networking modes.  See
.B networking modes
below.
.TP
\-M FILE
Read mapping rules from FILE.
.TP
\-O OPTIONS
Set options for the selected mapping mode. OPTIONS is a mode-specific string.
.TP
\-P FILE
Instead of joining or creating a session,
print all logs related to a persistent session. Output can be piped to
.I sb2-logz.
This option can be used even before the session is terminated. (see also options -D, -S and -J)
.TP
\-p
Do not simulate special filesystem permissions in "superuser mode" (see opt. -R):
By default Scratchbox2 tries to simulate similar privileges as the real
.I root
user has; this option prevents that.
See VIRTUAL PERMISSIONS below.
.TP
\-Q BUGLIST
Emulate bugs of scratchbox 1 (BUGLIST consists of letters: 'x' enables exec permission checking bug emulation).
.TP
\-r
Disable creating reverse mapping rules: functions like getcwd() and realpath() will always return the real path.
.TP
\-R
"superuser  mode":
Execute commands in simulated privileged environment, as simulated "root" user.
Depending on the selected mapping mode,
this may also disable some mode-specific features, like simulated write protection
of the target filesystem. See also option -U and VIRTUAL PERMISSIONS below.
.TP
\-s DIRECTORY
Use redirection rules from the DIRECTORY given in argument.
.TP
\-S FILE
Create a persistent session: Write session information to FILE
(see also -D, -P and -J)
.TP
\-t TARGET
Define TARGET to use. Use
.I sb2-config -d TARGET
to set a default.
.TP
\-T DIRECTORY
Use DIRECTORY as tools_root (override the value which was specified to sb2-init when the target specification was created).
.TP
\-U UID.GID
Set default file owner and group:
All "unknown" files appers to be owned by UID, and group appears to be GID.
Both values need to be numeric values, e.g. use "-U 0.0" to set the
default owner to "root", and group to "root".
In this context an "unknown file" refers to anything which is not explicitly
known to to the Vperm subsystem; See also VIRTUAL PERMISSIONS below.
.TP
\-u
Disable automatic configuration upgrade.
.TP
\-v
Display version number.

.TP
\-W DIR
Use DIR as the session directory when creating the session (The default is to
create the session in /tmp). DIR must be an absolute path and must not exist.
Note that long pathnames may cause trouble with socket operations, so try to
keep DIR as short as possible.
.TP
\-q
quiet; don't print debugging details to stdout etc.
.TP
\-x OPTIONS
specify additional options for
.I sb2d(1)
(effective only when a new session is created; it is
too late to try to use this with option -J)

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
sb2 ./configure
.TP
sb2 make
.TP
sb2 -eR make install
.TP
sb2 -R -m emulate make install

.SH MAPPING MODES
Scratchbox2 contains several ready-made rulesets, called
.I mapping modes,
for different purposes. This manual page presents only the
basics of each. Full details can be found from the
rulesets themselves.
.PP
There are three development-oriented modes, that are intended for
cross-compilation:
.PP
"simple" makes only the very basic modifications to the file environment:
For example,
.I /usr/include
refers to /usr/include in the target root file system, not to the real
/usr/include of the host (and the same applies to /lib, /usr/lib, 
and many other directories).
Typical toolchain commands, i.e. commands that are used to
create binary programs (like
.I gcc, as
and
.I ld)
refer to tools that were supplied with the the cross-compiler which was configured with
.I sb2-init
(also when used with full pathname: /usr/bin/gcc, /usr/bin/as, etc)
.PP
The "simple" mode usually takes other tools directly from the host OS.
This approach means that simple tools work fine, and well-behaving
OSS projects can be compiled with the "simple" mode. The drawback is that
there are some cases, where such a simple approach fails.
.PP
The other two development modes, "accel" and "devel" have more complete
support for different tools, but these are not necessarily as easy to
set up as the "simple" mode is.
Both "accel" and "devel" are intended to be used with a separate
"tools root" directory, 
consisting of host-compatible binaries of the same programs that 
exist in the target file system as foreign binaries (e.g. target root can contain
arm binaries, whereas tools root has x86 binaries of the exactly versions
of the same programs). This is configured with the -t option of sb2-init(1).
.PP
In addition to the development-oriented modes, scratchbox2 also has an "emulate"
mode, which sets up an environment without development tools: It maps as many paths
to the target root as possible.  It can be used for
installing programs to the target filesystem and testing them.
.PP
"tools" mode is very much like "emulate", except that there most
things are mapped to tools root.
.PP
"nomap" mode is a special mapping mode, which is mostly useful only
for debugging purposes: It does not apply any file system related mappings,
but otherwise scratchbox2 functions are fully operational.

.SH NETWORKING MODES
The networking subsystem is essentially a "mini-firewall", which
makes it possible to allow or deny TCP/IP connections independently of
host system settings. Decisions are typically made when network
addresses are processed (e.g. when connect(2),
bind(2), sendmsg(2) or sendto(2) is called). Scratchbox2 does
not contain a full firewall which would process each networking
packet separately.
.PP
There are four ready-made rulesets for networking. The mode
is selected with option "-n NET_MODE" when a session is created (or joined)
and the networking mode can be freely combined with any of the file
system mapping modes.
.PP
"online" is the default mode. It allows unrestricted access to
networking facilities of the host OS.
.PP
"offline" is the opposite of "online". It denies attempts
to use networking. For example, connect(2) will return EPERM
and bind(2) will return EADDRNOTAVAIL for all IP addresses.
.PP
"localhost" restricts networking to local addresses only.
In this mode, attempts to bind() to INADDR_ANY will be changed
to bind to 127.0.0.1.
.PP
"online_privatenets" restricts networking to private networks
(e.g. 10.0.0.0/8, 172.16.0.0/12 and 192.168.0.0/16 for IPv4,
and fc00::/7 etc. for IPv6 addresses)
.PP
Note that networking operations are not logged by default.
Use "-L net" (or higher levels) to activate logging of
network-related events.
.PP
N.B. Together with the "nomap" filesystem mapping mode,
you can also test what ordinary programs (programs that
belong to the host OS) are doing.

.SH VIRTUAL PERMISSIONS
The virtual permission ("Vperm") subsystem does three things:
.PP
First, it can virtualize file system metadata, i.e. the
information returned by stat(), lstat(), fstat() etc. calls.
.PP
Second, the Vperm subsystem can masquerade user- and group
information of running processes: getuid(), getgid() etc
calls may return simulated information (see option -R)
.PP
Third, a subset of the special superuser filesystem privileges 
can be simulated (unless option -p was used).
.PP
Virtualized metadata means that file ownership, access permission 
information (mode bits) and even file type can be virtualized.
Typically, the data is set by library/system calls like chown()
or chmod(). These calls are always first tried directly, but if the call
fails, the Vperm subsystem takes control and will set virtualized owner (or
other information) for the file. This way practically any
file on the system can get virtual metadata.
.PP
Virtualized metadata is shared between all processes inside a
session. It disappears when the session is deleted.
.PP
Virtual device nodes are also possible: if real
device nodes (character/block special nodes) can not be created
by mknod(), the Vperm system will create virtual device nodes
by creating an empty file which doesn't have any permissions,
and then setting the virtual file type to be a device. This
is useful for e.g. creating "tar" archives which need to have
device nodes inside, but the virtualized device nodes can not
be used for anything real, of course.
.PP
Note that the Vperm subsystem does not affect the way real
how permission checks are done. The kernel is still responsible:
All operations are still done with the real user
ID and real group ID. This can present some surprises: For example,
any file can be opened for reading only if the 
real (effective) user ID of process permits and the file
has owner's R-bit set, regardless of the virtual permissions
or virtual metadata.
.PP
For the simulated root user (option -R), some privileged operations
are simulated (unless -p is used): If a directory is created (mkdir()
or mode of directory is modified (chmod()) without 
full permissions for the owner (rwx), Scratchbox2 will set the real
mode bits and then virtualize them, so that the directory appears
as more restricted as what it really is.
.PP
This subsystem is essentially a superset of what the
.I fakeroot
utility has done. But Scratchbox2 does more; For example,
if user ID information is masqueraded, newly created files
will appear to be owned by that simulated user if (fakeroot
doesn't do that). Also, the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits
are correctly simulated for foreign binaries running under e.g. qemu
(fakeroot can't do that).
.PP
For compatibility with
.I fakeroot,
scratchbox2 offers two features: Most modes have a built-in
command "fakeroot" which accepts similar options as the real
.I fakeroot
command (but ignores most of those). Also, since the default in
a fakeroot session is to have all files owned by root (and group=root),
the Vperm subsystem can do a similar thing if the session is
created with the -U option (this is also activated by the
built-in "fakeroot" command.)

.SH FILES
.P
.I $HOME/.scratchbox2/*
.P
.I $HOME/sb2_logs
.P
.I /usr/share/scratchbox2/*.
In particular, /usr/share/scratchbox2/modes/* contains mapping modes
and the networking modes can be found at /usr/share/scratchbox2/net_rules/*.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sb2-init (1),
.BR sb2-config (1),
.BR sb2-show (1),
.BR sb2-logz (1),
.BR sb2-session (1),
.BR sb2d (1),
.BR qemu (1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Lauri T. Aarnio, Riku Voipio
.fi
