.TH sb2d 1 "7 March 2012" "2.3" "sb2d man page"
.SH NAME
sb2d \- Rule database daemon for Scratchbox2
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sb2d
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I sb2d
initializes and manages a rule database inside every Scratchbox2 session.
.PP
Normally
.I sb2d
is started automatically when a session is created by
.I sb2
and will be shut down when the session is
terminated, so there is usually no need to interact with this
daemon directly. However, under some conditions, it might be useful to 
specify options -S, -M or -F for sb2d. That can be done
with the "-x" option of sb2.
.PP
.I sb2d
is responsible for all updates to the database; client processes (i.e.
all processes running inside the session) will use mmap(2) to map the
database image to memory, and will read data from there without
any kind of locking. If a client process needs to add or update data,
it will create a socket and send an RPC message to sb2d, which will
perform the update.
.PP
The database is used to hold several kinds of rules: During session
setup pathmapping rules and exec rules are written to it. Those won't
be modified during session lifetime. But rules related to the virtual
permissions (see sb2(1)) might be added anytime, which might cause
the database file to grow.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\-d LEVEL
Enable debug messages.

.TP
\-f
foreground; does not fork (for debugging the daemon).

.TP
\-F MIN_CLIENT_SOCKET_FD
Set minimum client socket filedescriptor value.
Client processes which need to communicate with 
sb2d will create a socket, and then relocate the
file descriptor to a value which is at least
the value defined by this option.
Default is 279.

.TP
\-l FILE
Log messages to FILE. If FILE is "-", writes to stdout.
(note that
.I sb2
redirects stdout of sb2d to $SBOX_SESSION_DIR/sb2d.out
and uses option "-l -")

.TP
\-M MIN_MMAP_ADDR
Set minimum address for the memory mapped database.
Each client process will mmap(2) the database to be above
this address. Default is 0.

.TP
\-n
Don't start server; only initializes the rule database and exits (for debugging the daemon).

.TP
\-p FILE
write process ID to FILE.

.TP
\-s SESSION_DIR
set location of the session directory.

.TP
\-S SIZE
set maximum size of the memory mapped database.
This defines the amount of memory which will be reserved for
the database in
each client process running inside a Scratchbox2 session.
Default is 16 megabytes.

.SH DEBUGGING
A note for developers (of SB2 itself) about debugging:
The rule database file contains binary data. 
There is a debugging tool for printing out the contents,
distributed with the SB2 sources; see utils/sb2-ruletree.c
if you ever need to dig into the low-level details.

.SH FILES
.P
.I $SBOX_SESSION_DIR/*
.P

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sb2 (1),
.BR sb2-init (1),
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Lauri T. Aarnio
.fi
